1) DOCUMENT YOUR DEEP KNOWLEDGE OF YOUR HUMANS

Strong brands serve a particular group of people.  P&G historically has been excellent at turning consumer insights
into differentiated brands. What insights do you possess, and how can you build on these insights to serve your
humans?

2) WHAT’S YOUR PURPOSE AND PASSIONS

What’s the change you want to bring to the world? It doesn’t have to be pie-in-the-sky. For example, Boka
Restaurant Group has a palpable commitment to hospitality. No matter which of Boka’s restaurants you find yourself
in, you can count on excellent service. In a world where good service can be hard to come by, it’s a legitimate point
of difference. What’s the dent you want to make in the universe?

3) STATE YOUR VALUES

Nobody cares about the values you claim to have. Nobody cares about the values you hang in your lobby or stick
on your website. People only care about the values you put into motion. What do you stand for as people, and how
does that sing in your work?

4) WHAT’S GULD’S STORY

Why are craft brewers making such strong gains on the majors? They have more interesting stories. It can be helpful
to return to the roots and history of your company, bearing in mind that the truth beats marketing mythology. What’s
genuinely compelling about your story?

5) WHAT’S THE GULD EXPERIENCE

Your experience is more than your product or service. For example, many craft brewers have tasting rooms
featuring a range of well-crafted beers, some of which are only available on-location. There may be communal
tables, live music or above-average pub grub. The guy pouring your beer may be a vivacious chap, or he may be an
insufferable blowhard. That’s part of the experience too. What’s unique about the experience bundle you provide?

6) DEFINE YOUR STANDARD OF QUALITY

Despite what you may have heard, top-quality products or services can still carry the day. Two very different
restaurants, Au Cheval and Kuma’s, often have lines out the door. And for what? Their burgers. Good old,
commoditized hamburgers, elevated to a higher level. As Seth Godin says, “When in doubt, make better tacos.”
How will you take what’s ordinary and make it extraordinary?

7) DOCUMENT YOUR STRENGTHS

Say what you will about McDonald’s these last several years but its legendary growth was a function of operational
strength. Strengths come in many forms. What do you do better than anyone else?

8) DEFINE YOUR INDUSTRY RULES

Fifty years ago, Southwest Airlines broke nearly every established “rule” with its business model. The outcomes?
Industry-leading profits and a clear competitive positioning. What are the “rules” you can break?
